Again, we still have that problem
that we saw before in this example,
up here, which is changing anything
about any course card does not
affect any of the other course cards,
right?
What I eventually would like to do is get
this to the point where it's like, okay,
I'm working on a design actually these
should all have white backgrounds, right?
If I change this one,
it only applies to this one.
I want this idea of like, I have buttons.
[LAUGH] again, if you wanted to imagine
you had a UI with hundreds of buttons,
hundreds of list items,
hundreds of checkboxes.
You're like, I'm done with this border
radius of eight, we're going 16, right?
I think that would make your checkboxes
look like radio buttons at that point, but
regardless, right?
Or we're changing something about the
space and your padding, you don't wanna
have to go all the way through your
designs and change everything.
The idea is we wanna say,
this is a button.
This is what a button looks like.
However, we also don't wanna live in
a world where every button has to say
the word button, right?
There are things that we wanna share and
things that we want to override.
Now, how do we do this in
front end engineering?
Well, we will usually make, we write a
bunch of jQuery just modify the DOM right?
Just query selector all and
just modify those things right.
But, these days for the most part,
like many of the popular frameworks
have some kinda concept or notion of a
component that we can throw onto the page.
And as we change the component, so
does every instance of it in our UI,
that we implement with JavaScript,
or TypeScript or what have you.
The same is true in Figma, and
there's a lot of parallels.
What is super interesting for
us in our very specific
discipline is the inheritance
model of components works very
similar to the inheritance
model in JavaScript, right?
So in JavaScript unlike a lot of other
object oriented programming languages,
you don't have a class per se.
There's a syntax called class but
the inheritance model is prototypal
inheritance means, you have an object.
And then you can have other objects that
if they don't have the right property,
they look to their prototype object.
And like, yeah, I inherit from
this other object over here, but
I don't know what my title
color should be, go ask that.
Right but if on that child object you say
like know your heading color, it's red,
but mine is red, but
all the other ones will still
refer to that apparent components.
So basically you can take anything in
your figma UI and be like I'm gonna
use this again right if you do that
you can turn it into a component.
And then you can just drag
in additional copies so
I'll show you what it looks like in
practice right, theoretically, I did not.
I don't wanna talk about how many times
I changed the color and the fonts and
the line heights in this, right?
It's not really important.
I don't wanna talk about how many times I
changed the border radius or the stroke.
It's not useful but I didn't have to worry
about it cuz I didn't have to go change
each and every one of them.
If I wanted to add a new sticky
note I can just drag it in, right?
I could override the text,
new text, right?
And it's got that uniquely, but it takes
all the other properties of a sticky note.
I can go ahead and let's say let
me go to this base one over here.
We'll explain based on
the second sticky notes,
you're now gonna have
a border radius of eight.
You know,
let's just make it more ridiculous, 32.
Right, you can see that not only
do they all change over here, but
if I go back to my components every
sticky note in my mock up now has
rounded corners, which is gonna drive
me nuts in the next ten minutes.
And I will have to change it
back probably during a break
because I won't be able
to take it anymore.
But for now you can see that
they all kind of inherited that.
So how do we do this, right?
The nice part is not like you
have to go to a special place.
And make special component classes.
Now, you can literally take
anything that you like and
make it a component and
then use it other places.
Just because you like that
famous Jurassic Park line.
They were so busy asking whether or
not they could,
they didn't ask whether or
not they should, right,
to know that all buttons are based off
of one button somewhere in your UI.
It's probably not great.
Can you right click and go main component?
Yeah, sure but there we're gonna see some
strategies for how you organize your
components and how you set them up that
will make you happier as time goes on.
But the concept conceptually is any
layer can be turned into a component and
can be reused certain parts so,
that component can be
overwritten not all of them.
And we will have to do is jump through
some hoops and do some tricks to do some,
like more advanced things,
which we'll see.
But this is the general like conceptual
framework that we're going to kind of dig
into for the next little bit, okay.
Okay so what might make a good component
I mean common UI elements like buttons.
Checkboxes input fields maybe logo
branding assets like theoretically
originally when I was putting together
this material that like have very
nice art.
Or whatever that I had that was a
component cuz I was still tweaking it and
stuff along those lines and
I was making a whole bunch of nav bars,
I just wanted them all to change.
That's a possible component as well.
If you're developing for iOS,
you might pull in a bunch of
the standard iOS component.
That's right like the standard IOS
button stuff along those lines,
not just your buttons and
things that you're building but
the standard like native pieces as well.
That's true honestly for the browser as
well to stuff like post it notes that
you plan on using even to like
document your UI as well.
So that is also a thing that
could definitely happen too.
We talked a little bit about this
prototypal inheritance that's
the thing that no designer
will ever explain to you.
But like a daily and maybe that
brings some kind of bell if not,
you don't need to know
that in order to do this.
Okay, things you can override you can
change the text in any component as we saw
with the posted note.
You can change a lot of the colors,
you can change the shadow in the blurs,
you can change the layout grids,
you can change nested components
which which we'll get into.
The things you can override is not as
important as the list of things that you
can't override.
There we go,
which is the order of things, right?
So if I wanted to grab this title and
move it, I can't.
I can't even though this is an auto
layout, I can't move the order of
the components I can't really
change its position at all right?
Any constraints,
the bounds of text layers,
I can't add a new component in here.
There's an asterisk, I can cheat.
I'll show you how to cheat a little bit.
But generally speaking,
I am somewhat locked in to the general
structure of this component
that I can't really change.
But there are some ways,
once you kind of like conceptually
wrap your head around it.
There are ways to do most of the things
that you want, if not all, but most.
So we've got that kind of in place.
So how do you create a component?
I said, you can take almost anything.
So here's like a card component that
we made before, or a version of that.
If I can grab this I have
a bunch of different options.
Cuz obviously that's the symbol for
a component, right?
I can go hit Create component,
as you can guess from the hotkey.
I can also hit Option + Cmd + K, and
that will turn something into a component.
So let's start.
Let's turn this into a component.
In this case I'm gonna
hit Option + Cmd + K.
All right, it changes subtly you notice
that this frame is kind of blue and
has a blue word this one's now
purple that means it's a component.
That's not the important
part the important part is,
it now lives in your assets, right?
And your assets is a collection of all
your components, either your components,
or if you publish a library, which we
will talk about the very end of this.
It's a collection of all your components.
So now, if you wanted to drag
in another one of these,
you can drag in a whole bunch.
And I want to say what border races
now 32 they all change, right?
So you can create a very kind
of powerful system around this.
But I could theoretically change
this one to lots of colors.
So that's what we call an override, right?
This one has this instance
component had something
changed versus the main component.
This one did not.
So I could theoretically say,
rainbow you'll notice the one
that had never had the text changed,
gets the update, but
the one where I overrode the property
does not get the update.
And so here, let's go ahead and we'll say,
hey, the text color here
should be this color.
They all changed.
Let's go change this one
to its own new color.
All right, so
this has now got an override on the color.
So if I go ahead here and
I changed this again let's change it to
Switch back to black.
Right, this is override with the text
content this one had an override of
the text color they
inherited the change but
not in the places where they overrode it.
This is the same way like inheritance and
JavaScript might work as well.
The metaphor applies even if it is
a totally different paradigm, right?
The whole conceptual framework works.
So this gives you a lot of power.
It means you can drag in a button,
change the text of any given button.
But if you change like the label
in the main component,
it's not like every button in your UI.
Is automatically going
to receive that update.
It will simply only the ones that
had never had that overwritten.
If you make one particular
button a different color,
it will remain that color, right?
And you can combine this with styles and
stuff along those lines.
I will probably say this a few more times
today, but I'm gonna say it now and
I'll repeat it because it bears repeating.
My general rule is stuff that I
can put in styles like, the color,
fonts, I tend to leave that to
the styles and a lot of cases.
And, I can override a style too,
I can detach the style, and
stuff like the question we had earlier.
Can you store border radii in a style?
You can't, but that kind of stuff, the
structural pieces I leave the components.
And the styles I leave to the styles
right I might have a danger button or
secondary button that is fundamentally
like different from the primary button.
But like the color red that it
is I will store in a style so
I can change all of them all at once.
And that way I can use the same color like
let's say hypothetically I might have
links I might have a button I might have
a modal title they all use the same style.
I can change what a danger color
means in my application or
the brand color separate from going
into every component and doing my net.
Okay, so let's look at create a component.
We'll do this one together and
then you'll work on input fields.
I can make a button, we saw how easy it
is before I can take this button as well.
And all that we're gonna
do is we'll go here and
we're gonna say create component.
Right I hit the little button
now it is a component.
You can see it here as well.
One of the interesting things
that you should note and
we'll explore this a little
bit more in a bit.
How you organize your components is
incredibly important by default,
you'll notice that like,
it got this it has components.
Because the name of the page we're
on is called components not because
these are all components,
everything is a component in here.
However, this one is in a frame
called Creating a component.
So you look that Figma automatically
tries to organize it for you, right?
So as you're building out a design
system on your own page, right,
we'll take a look at, how you can do that.
You might have a frame for
all your buttons.
Now they're all organized under
one drop down, called, yeah,
this case create component but
I wanna hide all the course materials.
I can see just a given piece.
We'll see where this is
somewhat interesting,
as we get more advanced with
our components, as we go along.
But the way that you name them
definitely has an effect.
Also, if you're like,
I don't I'll put them in frames.
Okay ,that's tricky we did with
styles before where we had a slash,
in the name and that put it in a
subdirectory will also work whichever one
makes you happier, go for it.
I'm not the boss of you.